$ Copyright Frank West
$
$ He gave permission to use it as long as all uses are clearly marked as unofficial.

# Story 1

## Chapter 1: Oak Wood

In the City of Kings Council Chamber,
an urgent message arrives.

The City Council is busy, and the low stone benches
are packed with the leaders of every race, summoned
here by the Earthshaker. They look uncomfortable
in this vast, perfectly circular stone hall. None has
set foot in here before, and there is something too
precise, too symmetrical about the geometry that
defies mortal eyes. But this place was not built by
mortal hands, nor does it house normal beings.

You are summoned here because Cloud Keep has
fallen; a force of trolls on flying monsters has ousted
the winged Vadorans. All throughout the lands,
orcs, trolls and worse have appeared from their dark
corners. Calamis the First has opened the gates of
the closed City to the leaders of the free races, and
scouts have been sent out. We begin at Oak Wood,
where someone reported seeing the nearest enemy
encampment.

## Chapter 2: Orc Hunt

At Oak Wood, there is an eerie silence.

In the ruins of a clearing, there lies a human scout
in mottled grey surrounded by the bodies of ores and
broken trees. The scout's body is covered with the
injuries she sustained during her desperate fight.
"Friends," she gasps. "I was tracking this band of
Blood-Letter Ores across the Mar when they captured
me and brought me here."

"Blood-Letters?" you groan. Since their savage arrival
in the world 50 years ago, no orc had yet managed to
cross the great River Mar. This meant that all of the
Ageless Realms were in danger.

"Yes. Even their own tribes seem to hate these Blood-
Letters." The scout coughs in pain. "They were led by
one called Hekia Bloodmother, an Orc Chieftainess
who bore the design of a black hand, and she gloated
that there were many more coming this way....

## Chapter 3: Disrupt and Destroy

You bring your gruesome findings back to the
City Council Chamber: an orcish shield, a torn
warbanner, a bloodied cleaver.

"That is the symbol of the troll who took our home," spits
one of the Vadora councillors. "I will never forget it." She
kicks at the torn banner of the grotesque, tusked face.

"And this, I know, but it cannot be...." There is a sound
like grinding millstones from Calamis' chest as the golem
inspects the ruined shield with the sigil of a black hand.
"The Hand of Vesh stands for Vesh Darkhand. Vesh was
a human sorcerer once - we defeated him many moons
ago and drove him down into the bottomless Cluwash
Depths. But he has become something else, and - Fallen
forgive me - I think that it was my essence that helped
him rise again...." Calamis still feels that old wound
where the sorcerer experimented and shattered his
mineral body. "Vesh Darkhand must be behind the war:
We must find the staging post for his warbands!"

## Chapter 4: Hekia

A messenger arrives at your
location with news of Hekia.

Everywhere you search for signs of Vesh, you find
them. There are black hands secretly daubed on doors
or carved into standing trees. But still the Darkhand's
main encampment eludes you. The horizon is now
edged with pyres of black smoke from the rampaging
orcs. Vesh Darkhand has surprised the free peoples
of the world, and everywhere is starting to burn. But
here, now, you have a chance to at least slow the
destruction.

"Masters," the newly arrived messenger pants, "Hekia
Bloodmother is encamped around the Tower of the
North Wind!" It will be a hard fight, but all of the
heroes have faced worse. Calamis eventually fought
its way free of the Cluwash Depths with the help of
Brutius. They survived - sort of - with the human
prince now so scarred that every breath is painful,
and Calamis a shadow of the creature it once was.

## Heroic Challenge: The Parchment

At the Tower of the North Wind, after
fighting Hekia and her Blood-Letters,
you find a scroll in dark, orcish script.

"What is this filth?" The Vadoran High Priestess
T'Lorra is adamant she will not touch the parchment.
It has a greasy, almost soft feel that makes you think
of hide, or skin.... "I cannot read it." The dwarf Thralir
is just as eager not to go near. In the end, it seems
that only Calamis has the sturdy stomach - and the
skills - to be abie to read it at all.

"It says that there are other enemy encampments in
Azure Rise, and Hekia was meaning to supply them,"
Calamis murmurs. You know what you must do - find
them all and put an end to them.

## Legendary Challenge: Counterattack!

After your last battle, you are burning the dead
and re-packing your equipment when....

"Ladies! Sirs!?" A voice gasps and screams, stumbling
through the underbrush. It is an elf, shocked and
hobbling on tired legs. "Thank the roots and boughs
I found you," the elf pants, collapsing to the floor. "It
is Oak Wood. While you were gone, it came under
attack, but this time there were more of them - many
more! My elder sent me because she knew I was the
fastest runner, but still I fear that I am too late. You
must travel back to Oak Wood, and quickly. We have
only a handful of rangers and tree-gardeners there to
keep off an entire horde!"

# Story 2

## Chapter 1: Seeking Sanctuary

After the battle at the Tower of the North Wind.

You may have routed Hekia and her warband, but left
in their wake are the humans, dwarves, Vadorans and
the elves that they had kept in chains.

"We need to return them," one of the human captains
asserts.

"But where to, human?" A voice echoes like cracking
twigs as a figure steps from the battlefield. No one
knew when this graceful being joined the fight,
but they marvelled at her efficacy with her paired
longswords. She lets her hood fall back and a
shocking visage is revealed: an elvish face of pale,
dying skin and eyes that burn with fever.

"I am Vyliria. Once the Green Lady, now the Grey
Queen of the elves. Our Sacred Groves are burning -
and without them, the elvish race will die, as you can
see from my face. But there is still the Melian Forest.
Help take my people to the healers there.

## Chapter 2: Melian

At the Melian Forest.

Melien Forest is still a strange, fey place even in this
modern age of strife. There are many tales of the dark
things that inhabit this patch of remaining old wood.
But the elves seem unafraid, if weak. Queen Vyliria
knows that her people have an Oak Chapel here,
where some of the Sisters of Aranwyn still ply their
trade. "We can take these refugees to be healed, but
they will need shelter, supplies, firewood and defences
against the marauders."

## Chapter 3: House Greenacre

At the Melian Forest, your work is
disturbed by the sound of far-off
drums and distant screams....

Reaching the edge of the forest, you see a haze of
dust hanging over the lowlands below. Something
large and fast is rampaging down there through the
villages, woods and fields, leaving behind a blackened
and churned-up wasteland. The fog of battle still
hangs heavy, masking the creature as it travels, but
you hear the sound of its thunderous drums. What
could it be? Whatever it is, it is heading straight
towards the Menash Greenlands, natural home of
House Greenacre of the humans. There they produce
the strongest linens, banners and weaves from
their verdant fields, as well as raise up the fastest
horses this side of the heavens. "If the Greenlands
are destroyed, we will lose our supplies of bandages,
blankets and cavalry stables. We cannot let that
happen," you realise and set off.

## Chapter 4: Gug and His Herd

At the Menash Greenlands.

"Thank you for saving the crop," states Faldan Reeve,
the steward in charge of the Greenlands. "I have
already dispatched it to the City of Kings." The human
clerk looks pensive as his eyes scan the horizon. The
sound of approaching thunder is deafening, and the
smoke and dust is boiling forward towards his lands
at incredible speed. "Prepare yourselves...." the human
says tersely as first one shape starts to emerge from
the dust storm, then another behind it.

"Grimnir. But what are they doing here?" Faldan
hisses. "The Grimnir live in giant herds in the
southern plains. What has driven them so high and
so far?"

It wasn't drums you heard but the monstrous fists of
the charging creatures as they stampede towards you!

## Heroic Challenge: A Day's Work

The trail of the Grimnir's destruction
leads right up to almost the last fence
before the linen farm, where you stand.

Beside you, Steward Reeve looks relieved but also
harassed. "You did it. You stopped the beasts," he
congratulates you, sharing some rare Menash Mead.
"But that is only the start of our troubles. I sent most
of my workers away when the attack came, and half
the others fled. There's still a lot more good, strong
linen to come out of those mills there - and I am sure
the City of Kings will need it."

## Legendary Challenge: Stoppage!

At the Menash Greenlands.

A grinding clunk resounds across the fields and work
buildings of the Menash Greenlands. Racing to see,
you find the largest mill must have been damaged
in the attack, and its timbers are cracked. "If we can
get it working again, then we're in business!" Steward
Reeve states. "There's plenty more linen to come out
of them there fields.

# Story 3

## Chapter 1: Good Dwarvish Stone

In the forward arcades of the City
of Kings, before the City Gates.

The air is hot and dry. The first convoy of refugees,
linen and wood has been dispatched to the harried,
quickly-appointed quartermasters. The City walls are
now lined with Vyliria's elvish archers as defensive
plans are being drawn up below. Now that the Cloud
Keep has fallen, the City is cut off apart from two
main supply routes coming from the south. "But
here," states Brutius the Broken (ever the tactician),
"we could rebuild the Steward Rancor's old fort and
another at The Herald's Gate. They would give us
a forward defence in the outer lands. We will need
good, strong dwarf stone from the mines. We should
send an envoy to King Thralir's people at the Granite
Halls. We could trade for ore and see if the hand of
Vesh has stretched even into the depths below the
realms."

## Chapter 2: The Steward Rancor's Fort

Al the Granite Halls, where black smoke still
pours from sections of the broken mine.

"It was the trolls on flying creatures," the
Thunderbeard dwarves who held this place tell you
wearily, soot still caught in their beards. "We used
to make fun of the mole-ish Deep-Delvers, but if it
wasn't for Thralir Hillfeet and his clan, we would now
all be slaves of that Hoodrah Kelraz." Even though
the Deep-Delvers mostly fight blinded by the sun,
they are ferocious and held the lower Halls until the
Troll War-Captain and his flying Makar drove them
back. But they took with them most of the ore. The
dwarves agree with Brutus' plan - that they will help
to rebuild the Steward Rancor's Fort, and afterwards
return to the City of Kings. "I've been dying to get my
hands on City of Kings stone for generations anyway,"
the dwarvish engineer says with some glee.

## Chapter 3: No Ordinary Storm

At the Steward Rancor's (new) Fort!

The building has gone well, and half the dwarves
will stay to defend the fort. Now, the road to The
Herald's Gate ahead is a long and treacherous one,
even without the added complication of hauling
carts and wagons full of stone and equipment! On
the first night of the long trek, an eerie wind picks up
from the north, bringing with it a sudden frost that
snaps beards and freezes water flasks. "That was no
ordinary storm," says one of the dwarvish engineers
suspiciously. "I heard strange, croaking voices on the
wind," says one dwarf. "And this morning there were
tracks like large, webbed claws down by the river,"
says another. Enough scary stories, however; The
Herald's Gate is further ahead.

## Chapter 4: The Cold Hand of Vesh

At the site of The Herald's
Gate, where all is not well....

The preternatural winter has dogged your steps all
the way to The Herald's Gate. Some mornings would
see ice coating the road ahead, but by afternoon the
land would return to the hot summer it should be.
The building was marred by fierce winds, causing
many petty accidents. "But it is strong," the dwarves
announce. "Parts of this place belonged to the
Vadorans, and they say you can see clear to the top
of the world." That night, a hellish storm falls from
the north, and with it comes the sound of whooping
battle cries and mournful wails. By morning, an
enemy encampment has appeared with the frost, and
standing before the Gate is a heavyset creature with
black and white feathers, staring at the new building
before it. "I am Chief Ouri Redfeather of the Okol,
and you must surrender this place to the Hand of
Vesh!"

## Heroic Challenge: Behind Our Backs

At the site of The Herald's Gate, after
the battle with Chief Ouri Redfeather.

With the waving of urgent flags, there approaches a
human messenger on a tired horse. They have ridden
far, but they have no time to stop and rest. "The
enemy has retaken the Steward Rancor's Fort!" the
messenger declares. "They must have been waiting
for you to move off, as a sizeable force arrived and
started undoing all the good work that you have done
there."

## Legendary Challenge: Captured!

On the road back to the City of Kings,
a shrill horn breaks the silence.

This time you are interrupted not by a messenger or
a scout, but by a flying Vadora swooping through
the sky towards you bearing a silver horn. "Friends,
the guards you left at The Herald's Gate have been
captured! A troop of Vesh's creatures arrived,
encircling the fort and laying siege to it while you
were gone, and now they have tunnelled under the
walls! Please save them!"

# Story 4

## Chapter 1: Crowfeather Spies

Back at the City of Kings.

"Are the forts holding?" queries Lord Justus of House
Greenacre, a young human lord (although that might
be the touch of elf about him).

"They are," Calamis, the unofficial head of the
Council, growls. "But it isn't enough."

Vesh has succeeded in bribing, ensorcelling, or
threatening the Far races to join his crusade against
the City. Every creature that the Ageless Realms had
forgotten about seems to be returning from myth:
the Okol, the Grimnir and now... Sesharra?" Calamis
calls to the last surviving cat-person. "You fled the
far southern deserts of the Draustone after Hoodrah
Kelraz's flying Makar hunted your pride. She has
been working as one of my scouts, and she knows
something that will help us."

"I know a way into Cloud Keep," the Sakura hisses.
"Or rather, I know someone who knows. They will be
at the travelling Crowfeather Market every moon for
a month."

## Chapter 2: Emerald Moon Fish

A large clearing in a wood, where
a motley collection of tents sits.

The Crowfeather Market is the only trading outlet
of the thieves' network known as the Blackfeathers,
changing location with every moon. Even during
the war, this market is thriving with people from all
races, furtively buying or selling goods of dubious
ownership. There. Up ahead is the contact that
Sesharra had made in her secretive employment
by Calamis - a figure swathed in grey ribbons and
bandages, with an eye-mask that does nothing to hide
its sawn-in-half beak.

"I am Vatu, and yes, I am one of the Accursed. Not
your nice holy Vadorans. I still serve the old spirits.
Angry fire and fierce wind." The being cackles and
caws to itself, clearly mad. "So you want to know
something, do you? I can tell you a way into the
Cloud Keep - but it'll cost! Three fish from the nearby
lakes and I'll consider it!"

## Chapter 3: Ancient Ways

The Crowfeather Market.

By the time that you arrive back, much has changed
or the Market. Stalls and sellers have vanished,
gone out of business; caught or dead, no one knows.
Flooding the market are different, fouler things -
orcish bracelets and trollish gobstoppers. "Filth,"
squawks Vatu at the intrusion, although delighted by
the fish. "Well. Who would have thought it? Good-
tasting fish are hard to come by these days, and all
for my pot tonight!" Another shrieking laugh. "Before
the Heralds took over Cloud Keep, it was a temple to
the old spirits of the wind. We Accursed had tunnels
that took us far and wide from that temple. Secret
ways for the secrets we carried. One of those tunnels
can be found at the Howling Heath."

## Chapter 4: Prey

At the Howling Heath.

The battle with the enemy was fierce, made worse
by the gale-force winds that scour the scratchy,
thorny heathland. It is an unforgiving place at the
top of the world, and you can see why the Accursed
Vadorans worshipped the air spirits here. But no
sooner have you collected your breath than the air is
split by howling snarls and cackling laughter. "Fools!"
Shapes pour onto the heath, shapes with the bodies
of bears - but they are a horrible mockery of the
graceful Sakura. These mutant bear people jerk and
move strangely, not used to their bodies or the metal
weapons implanted into their flesh. "We are many,"
hisses their pack-leader, a bear-like female. "We
are Jamba. I am Queen Musural. You are prey." You
cannot hold such an open site against so many. Your
only hope now is to fight your way free.

## Heroic Challenge: Surrounded!

Trying to flee the Howling Heath, but the
forces of Vesh have a surprise for you....

The fighting is desperate, with no respite from the
constantly howling wind. Just when you feel that you
have fought your way free, there is a crashing from
the scrubby bushes as more creatures, which had
previously been hiding in the undergrowth, spring out
at you....

## Legendary Challenge: The Final Hurdle

The battle rages all around you,
but you see a glimmer of hope....

You've broken through the main knot of attackers,
and now the rest of Queen Musural's pack-fighters
are having trouble crossing the many brooks and
streams that cut through the Heath. Down there, a
stony escarpment that you can tumble toward and
make quick your escape through the trees. But first,
the Queen of the Jamba seems to have set guards
protecting your possible escape route....

# Story 5

## Chapter 1: The Library of Calamis

In the Vaults of the City of Kings.

The Council is in an uproar. "But the Accursed one
said that there were tunnels into the old Cloud Keep.
Tunnels, and that means more of them," the Vadorans
are frantically reasoning. Vesh might control one
route into Cloud Keep, but it doesn't mean that
down here, in Calamis' personal libraries, there
isn't some clue as to where the others might be. You
search through the corridors of scrolls, leather-
bound grimoires and slate tablets, but to no avail.
Eventually, the only scrap of information is this:
The Tablet of Zephyr: the tales and ways of the Old
Vadorans. Calamis doesn't hold it, but it might still
exist at the Astrographer's Tower. "That old wizard
was almost as wise as me, for a fleshie," even Calamis
has to agree. "But there are rumours that something
dark has moved in. We will have to fight it when we
get there."

## Chapter 2: Stolen Holiness

At the Astrographer's Tower....

"This is Vadoran masonry!" T'Lorra the Blessed can
see in the peculiar, fluting shapes. "And this, dwarvish
stone," Thralir recognises in another piece. "And
this...." Calamis feels a strange pull towards the blue-
grey foundation slabs of the Tower. They are Fallen
way-markers, salvaged and stolen from whatever
place the Fallen left them.

"So that was the secret of the Astrographer's power.
Stolen holiness," T'Lorra mutters.

The search through the dead wizard's sanctuary
reveals caches of gemstones, coins, strange fossilized
skeletons and finally, The Tablet of Zephyr.

"Look!" T'Lorra points to a map engraved on the 33rd
shale-shard just as a horn splits the air and weapons
thud against the wooden Tower door. You have been
tracked by the enemy!

## Chapter 3: Older Than Even

At the Astrographer's Tower, the 33rd
shale 'page' proves even more troubling.

"There are tunnels throughout the lands," T'Lorra
wonders. "But we have always been a winged people.
It doesn't make sense." The Blessed falls silent. She
may have wings, but she can no longer fly. She
remembers the swirl of feathers and the smell of
blood as her attendants sought to protect her as she
fled the Keep. Hoodrah and his legion fired burning
black arrows again and again, downing her most
loyal servants before finally finding her wing joint.

"They are older tunnels than even the Accursed
mentioned," Thralir points out. "We Deep-Delvers
know of other tunnels like this under the world. We
thought the Fallen made them."

"Where is the nearest?" Brutius demands.

"It is at a mine called The Diamond Halls. I know it."
Thralir studies the map. "But that section of the Halls
collapsed centuries ago. We will need to rebuild it."

## Chapter 4: Bogrot

At the Diamond Halls, with mortar
and stone dust still on your hands....

"So much of what i believed about the Fallen has been
turned upside-down recently," T'Lorra the Blessed
muses in the tunnel. She is not good underground.
"They are not masters of the winds, but rulers of
stone and the subterranean."

"Not just masters of the winds, and rulers of stone,"
Calamis corrects, and all eyes look to it, wondering if
now is the moment it might speak that first and final
word that began it all....

"Fools!" A scrape in the darkness ahead, and a hissing
voice snarls. From the newly excavated tunnel appear
glinting, feral eyes. "I am Bogrot Hoodrahson. My
daddy sent me down here to make sure no one would
think to attack Cloud Keep this way. Lucky you came
to keep me company, eh?" Bogrot Hoodrahson laughs
cruelly.

## Heroic Challenge: Collapse!

A dangerous creak, and the sound of sudden
water spraying into the mine workings....

"The Guard-Wails!" Thralir the dwarf appears
shocked and mortified as water starts to pour in all
around you. The attack from Bogrot and his trollish
fighters appears to have weakened the structure of
the mine workings, allowing the underground rivers
to pierce the strong walls.... "We need good slate-
stone and clay mortar - or else this whole mine will
be lost forever!"

## Legendary Challenge: What Comes Crawling

The Fallen Tunnels underneath the
dwarven works of the Diamond Halls.

Light glitters in the dark, reflecting the glow of your
guttering torches. "Diamonds...." breathes the great
Calamis, as if remembering an old friend. "This place
was famous for them," the dwarf agrees. But then
some of the lights wink out, reigniting a little further
away and glowing a sickly yellow-red. You realise
that they are not all precious crystals down here, and
some of the creatures of Vesh have found a way in....

# Story 6

## Chapter 1: Even Stones Have Graveyards

The Falien tunnels, deep underneath
the skin of the world.

No living thing, no rat, spider or breath of air disturbs
the quiet. "Even stones have their graveyards," Thralir
mutters into his beard. There is a grumbling noise
from the Risen. But there is light ahead - a shaft that
stretches high into the air.

You should wait for allies, but the opportunity is too
great. Silently, you climb the many hundreds of feet
up to a disused well on the slopes of Cloud Keep You
are outside the Keep, and there are Makar swarming
in the air above the holy home where once had been
only Vadorans.

"We have to distract them," the Sakura advises

"Or lure them." Vyliria smiles grimly. "If we can draw
them to Telmarren Grove, we can defeat them. The
Grove is ancient and powerful, and it will help us."

## Chapter 2: Light & Dark

Amidst the pools and ancient
trees of the Telmarren Grove.

The Grove is one of the most beautiful places in the
Ageless Realms, or so it is said. Surely no other place
has pools this crystal clear, this nourishing, nor trees
whose roots seem to be entwined with the earth itself.
The leaves on the boughs seem to chant and whisper,
and if you listen closely, you can almost make out
words in elvish: prayers of protection, of strength and
of striking true.

"How do we draw the Makar here?" discuss the party
members.

"If my years of battle have shown me anything, it is
this," Brutius growls. "We hit them hard enough so
they stand up and take notice. We retake Ravenswood
Town, and we fall back to here."

## Chapter 3: Creepers

In the shattered and deserted streets
of the creepy Ravenswood Town.

You may have just killed the monsters lurking here,
but that does not mean that Ravenswood Town is
safe. You have the sense of being watched from the
broken windows, and shapes flee and scurry at the
edges of your vision.

"I don't like it," one member of your party says.

You agree; we should leave this foul place. The
message has been sent, and the enemy will be
searching for you now. Time to return to the
Telmarren Grove, where you can slay the Makar and
leave the Cloud Keep wide open....

"Help!" A scream splits the night. When you round
the corner, there is a human girl being held hostage
by more of the creeping enemies. Maybe this is a trap,
but you have no choice.

## Chapter 4: Ichi

You have finally put the accursed
town of Ravenswood behind you,
but the skies are alive with fire....

"Damn that place!" You all agree that Ravenswood
Town attracted far more attention than you had
bargained for. You spent too long fighting. Now, it
seems that either the Darkhand was waiting for you
there or you were just unlucky, and every monster,
slave, orc soldier and mercenary is heading towards
your location.

"We'll never get to the Telmarren in time." Dark
shapes are swarming out of the sky, falling like
meteors surrounded by fire and fury. The Makar are
here, and they are led by Hoodrah's own personal
steed: Ichi. But Brutius has been through scrapes
almost as desperate as this. A savage laugh spills
from his scarred lips. Tonight will not be the day that
you die.

## Heroic Challenge: The Grove

Racing ahead of Vesh's armies, a
blackbird seems to be following you.

What is it? The small creature hops and shrieks at
you from the boughs of the nearest trees. Despite
your desperate race and the warbands coming after
you, this bird never leaves your side and almost seems
to be calling a warning. Could it be trying to talk to
you? "The Blackbirds of Telmarren." Vyliria appears
awed. "Even the elves have lost their speech, but this
one seems to be calling to us. We have to follow it."

It leads you back to the Telmarren Grove, where the
sacred site is under attack....

## Legendary Challenge: Screaming Trees

The air is heavy with soot, and there is a sound
in the air never heard at the Grove. The sighs of
the leaves have turned into howling screams.

What you thought were just a few (albeit strong)
creatures of Vesh appear to have been only the
vanguard, as more dark shapes appear at the edges
of the Grove, bringing with them fire and poison. You
cannot let this most ancient and sacred site die - it
must not fall!

# Story 7

## Chapter 1: Gibbet's Cross

The skies are dark with the smoke
of Vesh's encroaching armies.

How you survived the battle, and how the line held
against the monsters and forces that were thrown at
you, you have no idea. But you are here, alive. Behind
you burn the remains of Ravenswood Town, and in
front of you comes the smoke of enemy legions.

"We have to get to the tunnel at the Granite Halls,"
comes the unanimous decision. It's either retire to the
City of Kings or push ahead, back to the tunnel that
will lead to Cloud Keep. What sort of a choice is that?

"The way back is blocked," the far-seeing elf Queen
Vyliria says. "The enemy is corralling us up that
valley - straight for Gibbet's Cross."

## Chapter 2: Allies

On the ruinous crossroads stands the grisly
testament to even darker times - the gibbet
where Brutius' father used to send traitors.

"We need to rest," Sesharra snarls from her crouch,
but Brutius shakes his head, grimacing at the gibbet
with his one good eye. "Not here. Not under that foul
shadow."

A horn blows from the nearby valley floor, and there
is the sound of hooves approaching. Is it the enemy
cavalry already? Without a word, everyone stands
and readies their weapons.

"Ho, friends!" It is not the enemy - not yet - but
a phalanx of House Greenacre cavalry archers
accompanied by the few Vadoran Heralds who can
still fly. "We came as soon as we saw Ravenswood
burning. Come, we will harry the enemy to buy you
time to get where you need to go."

## Chapter 3: The Tunnel

You find the entrance to an ancient Fallen
Tunnel connected to the Granite Halls, but
a strange noise comes from within.

"They flooded it!" Thralir curses, his iron-nail boots
kicking at the water that rises to almost beard-height
on the dwarf.

"We can wade. We will have to." T'Lorra is grim, but
a fanatical light burns in her eyes. With a nod, you
press forward into the muck, the water pitch-black
save your torches and freezing cold. You are barely
halfway when there is a hiss as the water boils and
froths. Hoodrah not only flooded it; it appears he
released the newest creations of Vesh into it.

## Chapter 4: Hoodrah's Prisoner

You successfully navigate the Tunnel
out onto the steppes of Cloud Keep.

"Here," T'Lorra crouches before the stone plinth that
juts from the Keep like an accusing finger. "This was
my platform - it leads straight to the holiest temple
of the Vadorans." She pauses before you climb in,
remembering all the Vadorans who lost their lives
saving her.

The air is fetid with troll-smell and smoke. You
are lucky; many of Hoodrah's forces are in the
lowlands looking for you. But a shadow moves in
the throne room. It is Ichi the Makar, still alive. "I
smell birdflesh," snarls a new voice and, rising from
the spoils and broken wreckage, stands the proud
Hoodrah Kelraz. "Brave, but not clever. See what
happened to the last hero to come for my throat."
Beside him is a cage where an unfamiliar figure is
sitting in rags. But you did not come here for small
talk....

## The End

Standing in the ruined inner sanctum of the Temple
of Heralds, T'Lorra the Blessed falls to her knees,
overcome with grief, elation and rage. Cloud Keep
is now free of Hoodrah's forces that took it, but
the work to restore it to its former glory will take a
lifetime.

"Vyliria? To the ramparts - we need your sharp eyes
to warn us of a counterattack," Brutius requests, and
amazingly, the Grey Queen listens.

"Maybe you will be the High King in the end, human,"
mutters Thralir as he studies the stone. "But not here,
and not now. Cloud Keep will need a lot of fortifying if
we are to hold it from the flying Makar."

"I will bring the message to the City of Kings."
Sesharra stands. "I can travel fast and unseen, alone."
The cat doesn't wait for his agreement, but Brutus
gives it anyway.

But still, Vesh's legions have flooded the Ageless
Realms and are now pouring over the River Mar
into the Azure Rise. His war-chief Hoodrah Kelraz
might be driven from Cloud Keep, but it seems that
the Darkhand has unleashed the hordes of every ill-
begotten and misshapen thing he has been devising
out there in his laboratory-prisons.

A rattle of the bars and you remember the prisoner
that Hoodrah kept in the iron cage. Another hero, the
troll war-chief said. But who could it be?

There is still much work to be done, but the fightback
for the rest of the world will start here....

## Heroic Challenge: Defend Yourselves!

Ichi the Makar's defeated shriek still
echoes through the halls of the liberated
Cloud Keep. And it awakens something....

Ichi the Makar is defeated, but its last calls as it
mourned the loss of its master Hoodrah were high
and strange. A moment of silence before that call
is answered by another rasp, as a Makar that had
been hiding in the lower halls of Cloud Keep rips and
worms its way to the surface - and it has, at its side,
its handlers. They are all eager for revenge.

## Legendary Challenge: The War

Your weapons are heavy as you
collapse in the halls of Cloud Keep.

You are about to congratulate yourself on a hard-
won victory, but the sky is split by the horns of the
Vadoran Heralds - only they are not coming from
Cloud Keep at all. They are coming from far away,
from the shining white walls on the horizon: the City
of Kings.

"By the Fallen,...." Brutius swears, looking out of
the tall windows to see that dark bands of trolls,
orcs, Chaldakka, humans and more have appeared.
Somehow, Vesh has managed to send his forward
armies through the Ageless Realms almost to the
walls of the City of Kings itself. "He is attempting
to cut off the Cloud Keep from the City of Kings,
Brutius growls. "He'll starve us out of here if we don't
break that siege."

# Scenario: Carry Our Prayers (Normal)

## Carry Our Prayers

Every morning, there is a keening, ululating
singing from the rooftops of the City of Kings
as the Vadorans take to the high places to
praise the new day (despite the attempts of the
annoyed Risen to sweep them off the roof tiles!).

"It is the Dolemites, the Silent Ones," intones Calamis from
one of the battlements of the City. Beside it stands T' Lorra,
her wing bound to her side with fresh bandages. The Vadora
knows that there are two factions amongst the Risen: the
Watchful, which Calamis belongs to, are the most active,
whereas the rock, root and bone Dolemites are the forever-
silent. "They think the Vadorans disrespect the holy stone."

"Disrespect!?" T'Lorra is outraged. "We worship the Fallen,
and this is the city crafted by them. Our morning and evening
song is in praise to their greatness. We sing for their return
to the world. We sing for their guidance, wherever they came
from. Every day is a blessing given to us by the Fallen, and
the winds carry our prayers to them."

"Is it?" Calamis mutters, its glowing eyes flaring for a
moment, but the Herald's zeal cannot be dimmed.

"Yes. It is. We Vadorans believe that the Fallen not only
created the Risen, but that these gods created all of our races,
and we Vadorans were the second! We will never stop our
prayers."

"Perhaps,.." Calamis' voice grates. "Perhaps it would be easier
if the Vadoran had many places to pray. Their old Shrines....

"The House of the Eastern Wind, the Shrine of the Hidden
Sun,...." T'Lorra agrees. "They were Fallen sites, but they have
been demolished by Vesh."

"Then we should rebuild their glory. For the Vadorans, for all
of us - and for the peace of the City!" Calamis says.

# Scenario: Desecrated (Normal)

## Scenario: Desecrated

Outside the tall and strange walls of the
Astrographer's Tower, a fell breeze howls but does not
move the giant monolithic shape of the Earthshaker.

"Look!" Calamis rasps, agitated as it gestures at the pile of
boulders. The other heroes have rarely seen it so animated
with anger.

"It looks like a load of burnt masonry," states Sesharra,
sniffing the air dismissively.

"Wait - they are not though, are they..?" Thralir is the
first to spot the tell-tale veins of silver-flecked ore that run
through their soot-scorched surface.

"The stupid creatures of Vesh brought them down and lit a
fire, trying to harm them - but you cannot destroy Fallen
rock," Calamis' mighty voice growls. It moves to the side
of the nearest plinth, gently wiping it as if it were a child.
"The Fallen themselves put these here. They have a purpose
in this world,.." the golem mutters, and its gaze drifts far
away. "I only saw one of them as it died, its blood rising me
and the other Risen, but it was... beautiful," the Earthshaker
says quietly. Behind it, T'Lorra starts to mumble praise
songs in her twittering, sing-song Vadoran language.
Everyone wants to ask what the Earthshaker saw, what it
might have said.

Calamis' mood suddenly changes, grows dark. "And they
were terrible, too. I will hunt whatever did this, and I will
make them pay."

Again? the other heroes think. Calamis goes out every
day, ceaselessly and tirelessly on its stone legs hunting
the abominations of Vesh - as if it were its personal duty.
Maybe it is.

# Scenario: Memory Stone (Normal)

## Memory Stone

In one of the high chambers of the City of
Kings, a wax candle burns low in the night,
illuminating the face of Thralir Hillfeet.

The dwarf king feels old. He never expected this, nor ever
to leave the wondrous darks of the Granite Halls. On the
stone tables are mathematical sketches, drawings: giant
cogs, wheels and floorplans. "It was beautiful," says the
only other occupant in the room, a younger Thunderbeard
dwarf: Munir Stonetoe.

Thralir sighs wearily. "I would trade all of my life's work
for but a handful of these stones...." Scattered over the
drawings are small thumb-stones of different colours -
pitch-shale, glittering quartz, rare bluestone. Each one
has a sigil inscribed: the name of a lost dwarf. It is the
dwarvish custom that when one dies, a memory thumb-
stone is created from the rocks of their home halls and
carried by their relatives. "I have not the memory stones of
my family. When the Chaldakka Lances broke the walls of
the Granite Halls and poured fire within, I was down in the
depths, working a new seam. I smelt the smoke first, and
then heard the screams...." Munir is quiet as he listens. "I
led the fight up through the depths. We cleared the enemy,
held the lower halls against them - but I had already lost
my sons, my daughters, my daughter-sons, my nephews
and nieces.... Two hundred and eighty." Thralir's voice
wavers. "And my precious wife, Alfhild. I did not have time
to make her memory stone."

"Then we shall go back," Munir says fervently. "To the
Granite Halls, to Cogshead. You shall lead an expedition to
gather the memory stones of all those dwarvish souls lost
to Vesh, and then their spirits can finally have their rest."

# Scenario: Children of Lesser Men (Hard)

## Children of Lesser Men

As darkness falls, a cry is heard
from outside the city gates.

A small band of survivors wandering near the
outskirts of the City of Kings has reached out to
local heroes for help. They have long heard tell of the
legendary prowess of the warriors within the City of
Kings and seek aid to solve a most dire problem. A
child of their traveling band has been kidnapped and
is being held by a terrible creature named Ermabah
in the nearby forest. They have requested that the
heroes assist them in returning the child unharmed.

The child who has been 'kidnapped' is actually
the offspring of the resident idiots in the band of
survivors. Without proper parental supervision,
he has wandered off into the forest on his own.
Ermabah, usually a kind and benevolent creature,
has taken the child in as his own, protecting it from
the true dangers in the world. Ermabah may seem
unimposing at first, but upon having the child taken
from him, he will be infuriated. Further enraging the
beast will only lead to death and misery. By choosing
not to engage in needless bloodshed against the noble
creature, the heroes may find their quest a much
easier affair.

# Scenario: Lonely Nights (Hard)

## Lonely Nights

One of the smaller halls in the City of Kings. It is
night time, and this part of the city is deserted.

A patter of claws disturbs the quiet, and a dark shape
moves across the long hall. It is not large, but it moves
fast and furtively, pausing at the apertures that could be
windows or just voids in the stone.

"You will not find any guards here, if that is what you are
worried about," a voice erupts from the far corner of the
room, sounding like an avalanche. The robed figure hisses
and jumps back. What she had taken for another pillar or
statue opened glowing blue eyes. It is the Earthshaker.

"Sesharra, you should not go out there alone. Vesh has
spies everywhere. If you are captured, then the race of
Sakura will be lost."

The Sakura considers, tasting the air. "I must," she growls.
"You weren't there at the Draustone when Hoodrah and
his trolls came for us. The desert sands were scorched by
the flaming nets that Hoodrah fired at us. The young ones
were running, screaming. I fought to free my Pride, but
there were too many of the troll's forces. I don't know how
many - if any - escaped. I wandered, starving and half
mad until you found me, took me in. I need to know that at
least another like me survived. I cannot be the only one!"

The Earthshaker moves: a sound like grinding rock. "But,
every night? They will catch you eventually."

"I have to do this," the Sakura hisses again in frustration.

"I understand; maybe this can help us all. While you are
searching, gather some of the hardened magewood said
to grow in the nearby forests and return it to us for our
engineers to study."

# Scenario: Sworn (Hard)

## Sworn

At the Council Chamber of the City of Kings,
where an argument has broken out between
Lord Matthias Durance and Prince Brutius.

"And what does the prince think that we should do next?"
Lord Matthias demands, whipping his rich cloak around
his broad shoulders. It is no secret that House Durance
and the Brutius faction have long been at odds. Were it
not for the dark times they are in now, the human realms
might even have descended into civil war.

The Broken prince rises painfully to his feet. "We fortify.
We strengthen our position. Then we fight back." Brutius
speaks in little more than a whisper, but his voice carries.
He has a lifetime of fighting the wars of the world and
speaks with a quiet authority.

"Here, here!" "Nay!" The human factions are divided as
shouts rage across the Chamber.

"We need a strong leader to strike terror into the heart
of the enemy!" Matthias rails, but his rage is cut short by
the crack of stone on stone as the Earthshaker calls the
meeting to order before allowing Brutius to speak.

"And who should that be, Matthias? You?" the human
prince says. "And what of our people out there even now,
their villages burned, their crops stolen? I have sworn
that I will not take the crown until all of our people are
freed and Vesh finally defeated. I will not waste resources
and time on coronations while my people die. I would
give them a future, not a memorial."

"And where would you have us start, Lord Brutius?" calls
Thralir, supporting his friend.

# Scenario: The Honour of Thieves (Hard)

## The Honour of Thieves

In the dark chambers and stone halls of the City, a
body is carried hastily to a quiet, tranquil room.

"That man should be at the Healing Halls," Vyliria says
doubtfully. "The Sisters of Aranwyn will tend to his
wounds." The elvish queen looms by the small altar at the
end of the room, lighting the incense that should bring
rest. She has been called here along with the other heroes
of the Free Races, all at Brutius' request. The wounded
man is rangy-looking and thin, his green and brown
clothes home-made and simple.

"What is he, a woodsman?" Thralir the dwarf asks.

"This is Poul Jekker, and he's no honest woodsman, nor
am I going to endanger him by putting him in the rest
of the Halls," Brutius says from his stool at the side of
the man's bed. "He's a lead captain of the Blackfeathers,
and I owe him my life." Brutius' voice is no greater than
a whisper, but he has captured the others' attention. "He
led my people out of Squall's End when the Hand of Vesh
came, using their smuggling routes and tunnels to secure
their safety. I asked him to travel far and bring back
information on just what Vesh was doing out there in the
Cluwash Depths, and this is how he has returned to us....

Poul coughs weakly, one hand clasping the human king's.
"There is a defector. But she is at the Inn of Lost Hope,
heading for the Hyzicki Caravans. I meant to guide her
from there to The Marred Hand, where I have a covered
boat ready to complete the journey here. But I failed...."

"You have not failed, my friend. We will not fail," Brutius
says grimly.

# Scenario: A New Home (Very hard)

## A New Home

In the long avenues of the City of
Kings, the lost and hopeful congregate,
cautious of their new home.

A child's scream pierces the already noisy air of the City.
The Risen guards are not used to such activity; their stony
and root-like leaf, coral and bone ears do not know yet the
different sounds that a human can make. Their faces turn
slowly to the rising wails, unsure if this is a threat.

"Easy there, kid." Prince Brutius the Broken is a lot faster.
He reaches the screaming child through the gathering
throng of refugees. It is a human boy, barely a youth,
looking scared and alone. "Are you lost? Where are your
parents?" the prince whispers, crouching on one knee.

"Dead." The child sniffs. He holds up scuffed and grazed
hands. "I fell over."

"Finn! There you are, Finn!" says a harried older woman
with grey hair and piercing blue eyes. "Oh, my lord." She
drops into an awkward curtsey upon seeing the Broken
prince. "I am his grandmother. His parents were at the
defences of our town...."

"I'm sorry," Brutius grits his teeth. So much destruction.
All of the human settlements wiped out in a wave of
violence. The City of Kings is the only city left now. "Here,"
the prince whispers, pulling the heavy gauntlets from his
own scarred hands to place them on the boy. "You will
have a home here, Finn," Brutius says, but his heart is
troubled. There are so many refugees flooding in now that
they need more of everything: bedding, bandages, food,
shelters....

# Scenario: Hidden in Plain Sigh (Very hard)

## Hidden in Plain Sigh

Before the Gates of the City of Kings.

The creature was clever. It knew that it had to hide
itself until it could drop the simple enchantment
that kept it hidden. But still, the slow, trudging
humans and dwarves around it seemed to recognise
that the creature was something other. The rest of
the refugees refused to speak to the large person
swathed in heavy bandages and furs. They made the
sign to ward the evil-eye at it when it came near their
campfires at night. But the creature could wait. Vesh
had programmed it that way.

As the sun came up and the newest wave of tired
and half-starved humans were let into the City, the
creature walked alongside the others, under the
watchful gaze of the mighty Risen. Did one of them
look up suddenly? Did it sense the foulness of Vesh
nearby? No matter; the creature was inside the Gates
now, and it was time to act....

Dropping the enchantment, the creature shed its
human-like appearance like a shroud, drawing its
weapons to leap to the door mechanism as shouts
and warning bells rang. Vesh had sent allies ahead,
and they were lying in wait in the rocks near the
walls. All the creature had to do was keep the
portcullis open as its allies rushed forward, attacking
the walls from all sides....

# Scenario: Rumours (Very hard)

## Rumours

The inn is crowded and dark, and the air is smoky and
fragrant with cooked meats. Figures swathed in cloaks
and leathers finally relax after weeks on the road.

"You know what I heard?" says one of the figures to his
companion. The speaker is a rangy sort of human, all
scruffy beard and scars. "That Vesh used to be a human
once."

"Don't speak that name here!" the warrior's companion
mutters, taking another swig from her ale cup. She is
smaller than her fellow, with a cloak that does not hide the
patchwork armour underneath. "As if the world hasn't got
enough bad luck already."

"I never took you for superstitious, friend," the first laughs.
"We got out of Ravenswood, didn't we? And with the
moneyhouse takings!"

"Only just," his female companion says dejectedly. "And
nothing about the Darkhand's forces seems human to me."

"Well, that shows what you know. I met a mercenary who
met a fella, you see - he said that the Darkhand employs
humans. The Hand of Vesh, he calls them. Horrible, mean
sons of.... Anyway, and this friend of a friend said that Vesh
used to be a sorcerer-general back in King Augustus' times.
Went mad. Turned rogue. Scoured the land for any old
Fallen crap - and then he went hunting for the First. The
Earthshaker itself!"

"Hsss!" A hiss from the table behind the inebriated
freebooters echoes as a figure springs up. It is Sesharra,
swathed in black. "I don't like your tone, human, and
you clearly have time on your hands. Why not join the
resistance against Vesh at the Herald's Gate?"

# Scenario: The Creations of Vesh (Very hard)

## The Creations of Vesh

Swathed in bandages, a human scout
lies in the Chapels of Healing, tended
by the elvish refugees.

"It started just as rumours, up on the Way. Footprints
in the mud, the shape of which you'd never seen
before. Too small to be giant, not troll or Grimnir."
The scout coughs weakly, and his bandages are
speckled with blood. "But they were clawed, and long.
Different marks too.... A tail, maybe?"

The scout had been found on the road back to the
City, on foot and near death. There were four of them
sent out by Calamis the previous morning, and now
only one remained. "So we camped up, under the old
wood there, waited to see what it was. The first night
we heard a noise like a heron through the mists, and
by morning our horses had vanished. No sound....
just vanished. On the next day, the local farmers
said that something big had landed on their barn,
and by morning it was gone. All that they found were
scorched claw marks in the slate."

"It's another of Vesh's foul creations," murmurs the
Earthshaker. "When he captured me and took me
to the Cluwash Depths, I saw there rows of cells.
But the Darkhand wasn't just imprisoning people.
There came and went clerics, scholars, the sounds of
machinery. If the prisoners survived, they came out....
changed. Who knows what Vesh has bred or twisted
into existence by now? We should hunt this beast and
put an end to its terror."

# Scenario: The Scorched (Very hard)

## The Scorched

The smaller halls of the Inner Sanctum of
the Council Chamber of the City, where
the most troubling of news is discussed.

If they didn't know better, the scouts would be certain that
the creature was playing tricks on them. "Just when we
got near to the enemy supply route, this thing turned up,"
the elf ranger spits. "Its body was like molten rock, cooling
constantly into plates of iron and stone before breaking
apart into a heat that set fire to everything around it." The
elf shudders. "There was nothing we could do against it,
so we ran, seeking the quickest way back to the City - but
the way was blocked by slag heaps of cooling rock, forcing
us into Cripplewood Canyons. We were lost for three days
before we found our way out again. I swear to you - the
monster is playing games with us."

"How can it!?" bellows the Earthshaker, eyes sparkling
with indignation. "It is but rock and metal animated by
the Darkhand. It is no Risen, it has no spark of the divine
Fallen within it...."

But it is clear to Brutus and the other heroes, at least,
that the Scorched is the worst creation yet to walk out of
Vesh's pits. A hideous mockery of the Risen, the Scorched
can go anywhere, it can do anything, and it kills whatever
is in its path.

"But we will need to be able to track it and avoid its
advances," the human prince advises. "We should ensure
we have scouts at these places so that it may not trick us
again...."
